When would you want to use a remote repository rather than keeping all your work local?

It is suitable when more then one person is working with the repository,
and/or you want to have access to the repository from different computers.


Why might you want to always pull changes manually rather than having Git automatically stay up-to-date with your remote repository?

May be it is not comfortable to resolve merge conflicts that may take place after pull if you have some commits in your local repository not pushed yet.


Describe the differences between forks, clones, and branches. When would you use one instead of another?

Branches are "versions" of a project. Experimental branch, featured branch, stable master branch etc...
Clones are local or distant copy of some repository.
Forks are kind of clones but only within GitHub and with a link to an original project.


What is the benefit of having a copy of the last known state of the remote stored locally?

It allows you to work with the remote offline.


How would you collaborate without using Git or GitHub?
What would be easier, and what would be harder?

If there would be neither Git nor GitHub, I would like to use some services
like DropBox or just a shared folders in a local network.
And I think all collaboration process would be not harder or even easier,
but only if we are talking about really small teams and projects.
In other case (a larger project, or more than 1-2 people in team)
development process turns into mess and chaos.


When would you want to make changes in a separate branch rather than directly in master?
What benefits does each approach have?

I would like to use a separate branch for a new features
that are not in too close relations with a main product features
(so there will be no need to merge master branch too often).
It is easier to resolve conflicts within one single master branch rather than into 2+ branches,
but branches allow to isolate some unstable versions or experimental features.
